♪ Opening Song ♪
[door creaking]
[BOY 1]
It's okay! Don't worry!
The doctor is out examining
my grandma right now.
See?
I told you there was a
lot of neat stuff in here.
[BOY 2]
Whoa! Creepy.
[BOY 1]
Hey! What's this?
[GIRL]
Wow! What a pretty inkstone.
[GIRL'S FATHER panting]
[knocking]
[GIRL'S FATHER]
Doctor!
Doctor, please!
Come quick! Doctor!
It's my daughter!
Doctor, please, wake up!
[knocking continues]
[GIRL'S MOTHER]
Just after sunset,
she started complaining
about how cold she was.
The boys that live nearby
whom she was playing with
have the same symptoms.
[ADASHINO]
What is this?
Her body temperature
is extremely low.
Mommy, I'm cold. So cold.
Could you get me
another blanket?
[GIRL'S MOTHER]
Be right back.
[ADASHINO]
Even her breath is cold.
I'm freezing.
[ADASHINO]
Ice?
Doctor, I... I'm so sorry.
We went... We went into
your storage shed today.
You didn't touch
anything in there, did you?
Yes. Sorry. An inkstone.
[ADASHINO]
An inkstone?
[GINKO]
Hello? Anyone home?
[ADASHINO]
Hey, Ginko. Over here.
Thanks so much for coming.
[ADASHINO]
It was careless of me.
I've tried not to let the
villagers see anything
inside my storage shed.
How are they?
[ADASHINO]
They're getting weaker.
I've been having them drink
hot water to keep warm.
[ADASHINO]
This is it.
I bought it from a friend
of mine. A collector.
It's really quite beautiful,
but I think that it might
be made from some type
of mushi fossil.
Mushi fossil?
[GINKO] I'm not sure if
there even is such a thing.
They usually don't
leave behind any remains.
Next time,
if you don't know enough
about something strange,
then don't buy it.
You're just asking for trouble.
Keep in mind that
the things you collect
are considered paranormal.
It was foolish. Sorry.
[GINKO]
This isn't a fossil.
The mushi seem
to still be alive.
So...
What did those kids
say they were doing?
[ADASHINO] What did you do
with the inkstone?
[GIRL] We rubbed a...
an ink stick on it.
[BOY 1]
Hey! What did you find?
[BOY 2]
What is it?
It looks like an
ordinary inkstone.
No way!
I bet it's some kind
of magic inkstone!
There was some
water back over there.
Get it, and find an ink stick!
[GIRL]
Maybe we shouldn't.
The doctor will get mad.
[BOY 1]
Come on!
We'll just do a little bit.
[ALL]
Huh?
[BOY 2] Did something cold
just come out of it?
[GIRL]
Yeah.
I felt it in my nose
when I was breathing.
[GINKO] When rubbed,
the mushi reproduced,
entered the children's bodies,
and is now freezing them
from the inside.
But that's not enough
to determine which mushi
we're dealing with.
Is that so...
Doesn't the previous
owner know anything?
[ADASHINO] Not any more than
what I've already told you.
And, from what I understand,
all of the other previous
owners died after using it.
[GINKO] So the only one left
who might know something
is the one who made it.
[ADASHINO]
There's an inscription on it.
I'm sure it will
help you find the maker.
I'll check it out.
And I'll need to borrow this.
Thank you.
[GINKO]
Yeah.
I must be getting close.
It should be around
here somewhere.
Ah...
She lives over there.
But she doesn't make
inkstones anymore.
[GINKO]
Hmm...
Why is that?
[VILLAGE WOMAN]
I'm not sure.
She just stopped one day.
I hear she was quite skilled.
She lives alone. No family.
Who are you?
What do you want?
[GINKO] Are you the one
that made this?
Yes. That's my inscription.
What's this about?
Is something wrong?
Yes.
There are children suffering
because of this inkstone.
[GINKO] I need you to tell me
everything you know about it.
[TAGANE]
Thank you. Thanks for coming.
I've been looking for this
inkstone for a very long time.
[TAGANE]
From what I know,
there have been three people
who have used that inkstone.
I've heard all three died less
than a month after using it.
It all started
soon after my father,
a well-known inkstone maker,
fell ill.
I had a fiancé.
He lived in a town one
mountain's crossing away,
and was one of my
father's customers.
Both he and his parents
were opposed to me
carrying on my father's work.
Tagane...
Are you sure about this?
You of all people
should know.
My father and I are the only
ones who can carve these!
I don't want to give it up!
But you can't handle
all this on your own,
and when the orders
take too long to complete,
business will decline.
Listen!
Soon, I'll make an inkstone
that rivals my father's work!
Please!
Have faith in me.
[FIANCE]
I'll come again.
[TAGANE]
That became my plan.
I knew if I could make
something like that,
I would win his approval.
I put everything I had into
the art of making inkstones.
But even so, I never made
anything I was satisfied with.
[TAGANE] Then, one day,
I discovered that rock.
It was enchanting.
I began working on it
with a passion.
And the inkstone
I created from it
was a brilliant masterpiece.
It's beautiful work.
Let's rub an ink stick
on it and test it out.
[TAGANE coughing]
[TAGANE]
What... What was that?
[TAGANE'S FATHER]
What's wrong?
Was that smoke?
Something came out
of the inkstone.
Look! It's right there!
I see nothing.
The ink's texture
is good, as well.
I can rest assured now that
you can continue my work.
[TAGANE] Several days passed
after I inhaled that smoke.
It didn't seem to have
had any effect on me.
I was the only one that saw it.
I hoped my fiancé
would reconsider
once he saw the inkstone.
All right, then.
Would you mind
if I borrowed this?
I'll need it if I'm going to try
and convince my parents.
[TAGANE]
Do you mean it?
Yes.
Once I have their approval on
this, I'll send you a letter.
[TAGANE] I received
a letter a month later.
But the letter was to
inform me that he had died.
On the day
I delivered the stone,
he began complaining of chills.
It seems he contracted
some sort of strange disease
that continuously lowered
his body temperature.
Believing that the
inkstone was cursed,
his family decided to
sell it to an antique store.
I went to the store, but it
had already been sold.
The owner had no
record of the buyer,
so I lost track
of its whereabouts.
But a rumor later
came to the store
from one of its antique dealers.
[DEALER] Another person has died
because of that inkstone.
[TAGANE] Not long after
that, my father died.
I haven't made another
inkstone since that day.
I'd like to help you,
but I've already told you
everything I know about it.
[GINKO]
Actually, you have helped.
I think I know what
it is now. Thank you.
Hey! Where are you going?
Sorry, but I'm in a hurry.
[TAGANE]
Wait!
I beg of you.
Let me buy that stone.
That way, I can
destroy it myself.
I'm sorry, but it's
not mine to sell.
But if you like,
you can come with me.
You're just asking for trouble.
The things that you
collect are paranormal.
[ADASHINO]
I know, I know, I just...
[GINKO]
I see...
So you've finally started
to learn your lesson.
[ADASHINO]
You're back!
If you're going to
give me a hard time,
I hope you at least found out--
Don't worry. I'll save them.
[ADASHINO] So coal, a portable
stove, and what else?
A pot. And do you
have a backpack?
[ADASHINO]
Hm... Yeah.
[GINKO] The mushi inside the
inkstone is called a Kumohami,
or cloud eater.
They look like
a nimbus cloud,
and, just like
their name implies,
they eat the moisture
and ice in the atmosphere
and turn it into snow and hail.
It's the reason you see
hail fall from time to time
when there isn't
a cloud in the sky.
But they can't
move on their own.
They rely on the wind
to carry them.
If enough time passes where
the sky is cloudless,
they freeze and
condense themselves,
and fall to the
Earth to hibernate.
After centuries of
remaining in hibernation,
the mushi turns into stone.
In this case, they were
fortunate to be discovered
and used as an inkstone.
Each time they're given water
and have their surface rubbed,
they reproduce.
[ADASHINO] So what
do you suggest we do?
[GINKO]
Tagane.
When you delivered the
stone to your fiancé,
you crossed a mountain,
didn't you?
That must be the
reason you survived
after inhaling the smoke.
We need to take these children
to the closest
and highest mountains.
It's worse.
Give her some hot water!
[GIRL'S MOTHER]
Right!
[GIRL'S MOTHER] Oh, no!
The water's gone cold!
I'll run ahead and
boil some for you.
[GIRL'S MOTHER]
Thank you so much!
[GIRL'S MOTHER] Doctor, do we
have to climb much further?
It's becoming
difficult to breathe,
and it's so hard
on the children.
Ginko, please!
[GINKO]
Just a little higher.
[GIRL whimpering]
[GINKO]
Listen! Everyone!
Hold your breath!
Sweetheart!
Are you all right?
I think so.
I'm not cold now.
Temperature's back to normal.
It's over.
Father! I don't
feel cold anymore!
[BOY 1'S FATHER]
Hey! You had me worried there!
But how? How did you know?
It was the air pressure.
These mushi live
in the stratosphere,
where the clouds are.
With that being the case,
it stands to reason that
their weight is similar
to their habitat.
The closer they are to it,
the more they're drawn to it.
Your village sits
at a higher altitude.
So the smoke you inhaled most
likely escaped little by little.
And when you
crossed the mountain
to deliver the inkstone,
it probably escaped completely.
[ALL laughing, chattering]
[TAGANE]
Thank goodness.
[TAGANE] The problem
still lies in the fact
that you collect these
dangerous things as a hobby!
I'll be responsible
for destroying it.
I told you.
We know how to deal with it now,
so it shouldn't be
a problem anymore.
[TAGANE]
Oh really?
I guess the same thing goes for
the rest of your collection?
[ADASHINO]
That's none of your business.
Hey, Ginko!
Explain it to her, okay?
If she destroys that inkstone,
then she'll be killing
the mushi inside of it.
Hmm... Yeah,
he's right about that.
[ADASHINO sighs]
It's not the mushi's fault.
They're innocent!
Besides, look at it!
That inkstone is far
too beautiful to destroy.
And seeing as how you made it,
don't you have the least
bit of attachment to it?
I do, but...
But you feel responsible
for unleashing
the dormant mushi out
into our world, don't you?
[GINKO]
There is another option.
Why not... release the
mushi from the stone?
Hey!
That's my inkstone
you're talking about!
If I were you, Adashino,
I would let this one go.
This whole situation
is partly your fault.
Besides...
It's really a
first class inkstone.
It'd be a shame not to use it.
[ADASHINO groans]
[BALD VILLAGER]
What's this?
[GIRL]
It's hail!
[CHILDREN laughing]
[OLD VILLAGER] But there's
not a cloud in the sky.
[YOUNGER VILLAGER]
Where's it coming from?
[rooftile shatters]
The repair costs to all
of the roofs of this village
are going to be huge.
Then you can bill me.
I'll pay it.
Even if it takes me a lifetime.
What will you do?
That's a lot of money.
She can go back
to making inkstones.
With work like hers,
I'm sure she'd be able
to pay it off in no time.
Well, maybe.
If you do, then I'd like
to order one from you.
And I don't mind if
it has a mushi inside.
[GINKO]
Come on.
You're not just going
to give up on it, are you?
After all this?
[TAGANE]
No. You're right.
But the first one might take me
a little longer than it used to.
[ADASHINO] How long
do you think it'll keep hailing
like this?
[GINKO]
It's hard to say.
The mushi hasn't had a meal
in a long, long time.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Sleeping Mountain."